Notes re Tickets CAD V2.7 Beta:

1.  The Call Board function provides a display of current incident-unit assignments. (In effect, a Situation Management tool.)  Clicks there will provide a convenient direct link to incident and unit information.  Cleared incidents are shown with a strike-through for 24 hours in order to communicate that information to later shifts.
2.  Incident types are supported, with the few you'll see able to be extended by admin-privileged users as needed.  See note 32. below.
3.  Given a new call/incident, the next screen shows its location against existing response units, plus their straight-line distances and driving directions -  via both text and map.  Driving directions from any unit may be called up, with the closest one shown as the initial default.
4.  In writing up a new call, the automatic lookup is fairly effective for residential land-line phones, names (with city/state information), and street address.  When found, these return map locations.  (AKA geo-coding.)
5.  Any number of units may be committed to a given incident, as well as vice-versa.  A closed incident remains visible for 24 hours with a strike-through - for ready identification.
6.  The Reports function provides for day/week/month/year summaries, with pie-chart displays by location, priority, and incident-type.
7.  The EM Card function allows you access to the default one provided by Bob Austin, or yr own if you have one.
8.  There's a light-weight chat function available, which some teams find useful for in-the-center chat.

To install:
9.  Create an empty MySQL database entry.  You'll need to know its name, the host name, your user name and password.
10. Unzip the tickets_2_7_beta zip into whatever directory from which you plan to run Tickets.
11. Navigate to, say, http://localhost/tickets/install.php -- or its equivalent on your machine.
12. There, you'll be challenged for the database information used in step 9. above.
13. At some point -- maybe this one -- you'll need a valid GMaps API key.  It's free.  Obtain from Google at 
        http://www.google.com/apis/maps/signup.html

After installing but prior to use:

14. Note that the automatically-generated 'admin' account - despite its name - has privileges level of 'super'.  Only such supers can create new user accounts of this level, which shd be rarely done.
15. For security, you should create your user accounts, with suitable access privileges: Configuration/Add User.  Remove the automatically-created admin/admin account as soon as you've tested your own account with 'super' priveleges.  Similar for guest/guest.
16. Also for security, you should hide the install.php file.  Unintended access can cause havoc.
17. Set a number of settings, like aprs poll, call board, chat time, login banner, host: Configuration/Edit settings. (Mouseover item to see explanation.)  
18. Set default map center:  Configuration/Set Default Map
19. Incident types: Configuration/Incident types fire, traffic
20. Unit status values: Configuration/Unit status types (available, unavailable)
21. Set map center, etc:  Configuration/Set Default Map  (the lookup city entry can help.)
22. Set GMaps API key:  Configuration/Set GMaps API key if needed.
23. Set Incident types: Configuration/Incident types/Add New In_types entry (ex: Animal, Domestic Violence, Public Nuisance)  Set Group and Sort to control the order within the dropdown list.
24. Set Settings, incl Call Board, chat time Default City, map height and width: Configuration/Settings (Again, mouseover item to see explanation) 
25. Set Response Units: Units/Add a Unit.  Mobile units will require a call sign entry, and these will receive APRS polling.  (Calls must match exactly their aprsworld entry.)
26. Set Unit status values: Config/Unit status types.
27. Set email addresses: Config/Contacts.  You'll need these if you'll be emailing incident data.
28. To apply kml files, insert these into the tickets/kml_files subdirectory.
29. To use your own EMS card file, replace the PDF in the ticket/emd_cards subdirectory. (FYI, Bob Austin will be providing updates to the one currently included.)

Odds and ends:

30: Tickets DOES use popups for certain functions.  These will need to be unblocked.
31. On a Win32 platform, whether IIS or Apache, the mail function is problematic; it may or may not work correctly.
32. The map height and width are user-settable, via item 16 above.
33. In the 'incident types' and 'unit status' drop-down lists, you can set background colors by suitable css settings for the option 'group'.  See the ones already set in default.css .
34. We make extensive use of mouseover hints in a number of places, esp where we need to truncate the data shown.
35. Lots more corrections and improvements to the Units and Call Board  operations.
36. Some performance improvements made.
37. KML file useage is now a settable option. (0/1 for no/yes)
38. New privilege level 'super' added, with potentally dangerous database maintenance options restricted to that level.

Changes from CAD V2.7 (the immediate predecessor version)

35. LOTS more corrections and improvements to the Units, Call Board, and report features.  Fixed units are now referred to as 'stations', and may have a call sign.
36. APRS functions notably cleaned up.  We now keep the most recent seven days' tracks.
37. Tracks improved, and  allows each mobile unit track to occupy its own window - as many as you have mobile units.
38. On tracked units, the as-of time obtained via APRS data is so identified.
39. The Configuration summary now shows who's logged on, or failed to log off.
40. The Units Edit form now shows the number of active dispatches, if any.  Such would make the unit non-removeable.
41. Reports changed to accommodate gracefully references to deleted units and incidents.
42. Login revised to allow reports to show station login data correctly.

The above may well be too terse.  Let me know where further expansion wd be useful.

June 27, '08
Arnie Shore
