Notes re Tickets CAD V2.7 Beta:

1.  The Call Board function provides a display of current incident-unit assignments. (In effect, a Situation Management tool.)  Clicks there will provide a convenient direct link to incident and unit information.  Cleared incidents are shown with a strike-through for 24 hours in order to communicate that information to later shifts.
2.  Incident types are supported, with the few you'll see able to be extended by admin-privileged users as needed.  See note 32. below.
3.  Given a new call/incident, the next screen shows its location against existing response units, plus their straight-line distances and driving directions -  via both text and map.  Driving directions from any unit may be called up, with the closest one shown as the initial default.
4.  In writing up a new call, the automatic lookup is fairly effective for residential land-line phones, names (with city/state information), and street address.  When found, these return map locations.  (AKA geo-coding.)
5.  Any number of units may be committed to a given incident, as well as vice-versa.  A closed incident remains visible for 24 hours with a strike-through - for ready identification.
6.  The Reports function provides for day/week/month/year summaries, with pie-chart displays by location, priority, and incident-type.
7.  The EM Card function allows you access to the default one provided by Bob Austin, or yr own if you have one.
8.  There's a light-weight chat function available, which some teams find useful for in-the-center chat.

To install:
9.  Create an empty MySQL database entry.  You'll need to know its name, the host name, your user name and password.
10. Unzip the tickets_2_7_beta zip into whatever directory from which you plan to run Tickets.
11. Navigate to, say, http://localhost/tickets/install.php -- or its equivalent on your machine.
12. There, you'll be challenged for the database information used in step 9. above.
13. At some point -- maybe this one -- you'll need a valid GMaps API key.  It's free.  Obtain from Google at 
        http://www.google.com/apis/maps/signup.html

After installing but prior to use:

14. Note that the automatically-generated 'admin' account - despite its name - has privileges level of 'super'.  Only such supers can create new user accounts of this level, which shd be rarely done.
15. For security, you should create your user accounts, with suitable access privileges: Configuration/Add User.  Remove the automatically-created admin/admin account as soon as you've tested your own account with 'super' priveleges.  Similar for guest/guest.
16. Also for security, you should hide the install.php file.  Unintended access can cause havoc.
17. Set a number of settings, like aprs poll, call board, chat time, login banner, host: Configuration/Edit settings. (Mouseover item to see explanation.)  
18. Set default map center:  Configuration/Set Default Map
19. Incident types: Configuration/Incident types fire, traffic
20. Unit status values: Configuration/Unit status types (available, unavailable)
21. Set map center, etc:  Configuration/Set Default Map  (the lookup city entry can help.)
22. Set GMaps API key:  Configuration/Set GMaps API key if needed.
23. Set Incident types: Configuration/Incident types/Add New In_types entry (ex: Animal, Domestic Violence, Public Nuisance)  Set Group and Sort to control the order within the dropdown list.
24. Set Settings, incl Call Board, chat time Default City, map height and width: Configuration/Settings (Again, mouseover item to see explanation) 
25. Set Response Units: Units/Add a Unit.  Mobile units will require a call sign entry, and these will receive APRS polling.  (Calls must match exactly their aprsworld entry.)
26. Set Unit status values: Config/Unit status types.
27. Set email addresses: Config/Contacts.  You'll need these if you'll be emailing incident data.
28. To apply kml files, insert these into the tickets/kml_files subdirectory.
29. To use your own EMS card file, replace the PDF in the ticket/emd_cards subdirectory. (FYI, Bob Austin will be providing updates to the one currently included.)

Odds and ends:

30: Tickets DOES use popups for certain functions.  These will need to be unblocked.
31. On a Win32 platform, whether IIS or Apache, the mail function is problematic; it may or may not work correctly.
32. The map height and width are user-settable, via item 16 above.
33. In the 'incident types' and 'unit status' drop-down lists, you can set background colors by suitable css settings for the option 'group'.  See the ones already set in default.css .
34. We make extensive use of mouseover hints in a number of places, esp where we need to truncate the data shown.
35. Lots more corrections and improvements to the Units and Call Board  operations.
36. Some performance improvements made.
37. KML file useage is now a settable option. (0/1 for no/yes)
38. New privilege level 'super' added, with potentally dangerous database maintenance options restricted to that level.

Changes from Tickets V2.7 (the immediate predecessor version)

35. LOTS more corrections and improvements to the Units, Call Board, and report features.  Fixed units are now referred to as 'stations', and may have a call sign.
36. APRS functions notably cleaned up.  We now keep the most recent seven days' tracks.
37. Tracks improved, and  allows each mobile unit track to occupy its own window - as many as you have mobile units.
38. On tracked units, the as-of time obtained via APRS data is so identified.
39. The Configuration summary now shows who's logged on, or failed to log off.
40. The Units Edit form now shows the number of active dispatches, if any.  Such would make the unit non-removeable.
41. Reports changed to accommodate gracefully references to deleted units and incidents.
42. Login revised to allow reports to show station login data correctly.

Changes for Tickets V2.7 e
43. The Configuration menu now has a 'Test Callsign' function which allows testing a given callsign for APRS validity.
44. Incident infowindows now provide a direct link to allow a unit to be dispatched.
45. If a given Unit is dispatched, its infowindow now identify the incident being dispatched to, with an active link, and also a link to the dispatch/routes page.  N.B. Units without location information cannot be dispatched.

Changes for Tickets V2.8
46. USNG coordinates are now shown for incidents and unit locations.
47. You now have your choice of display format for coordinates; choice is set in Configuration/Settings (no surprise here). Apply (0) for DDD.ddddd, (1) for DDD MMM SS.ss, (2) for DDD MM.mm .
48. Tracks handling has had a significant cleanup, and now includes a graph of altitudes.
49. The top frame now shows the revised value when a 'setting' is revised and affects the display.
50. Graphics in Incident Reports now display correctly.

Changes for Tickets V2.8 b
51. Tables module was corrected to address reported problems in POST variable handling.
52. Minor corrections to filename includes in the help module.
53. Corrections to ticket EDIT and to APRS functions; 

Changes for Tickets V2.9
54. APRS data handling significantly corrected and improved. Repeated zero-speed posreps are not retained.
55. Dispatch to a unit that has its 'contact via' setting an email address - including one for cellphone texting - generates mail to that address.
56. Cellphones/texting messages will be automatically 'chunked' to reflect the size limit per message.
57. Operator-level users may now perform all needed ticket, unit and dispatch data updates.
59. The database schema was expanded to accommodate expected growth in Tickets capabilities.  Teams and members - with attributes of titles, skills, courses taken, certificates gained, plus document management and photos - are now schema elements, although without any code in this version.
60. 'Notifies' was expanded to accommodate automatic notification via email/texting whenever ANY ticket is edited or written, with a filter for severity.

Changes for Tickets V 2.9 A
61. Primarily a bug correction release.  Lots of odds and ends, including the install process, several in the Call Board operation and in the Zoom mini-map display.

Changes for Tickets V 2.10 C
62. Unit types are now (at last!) variable. You may create any number of types, each unit associated with a type.
63. Phone no. lookup is more effective, using 'White Pages' API in place of Google's.  A default area-code setting is included.
64. The set of 500 icons has been eliminated in favor of dynamic number generation as required.  (Big reduction in zip file size.)
65. The Call Board may now be set to allow a permanent, frame-based display, as an alternative to the floating window, or none.
66. Its operation is a good bit quicker, providing dispatch status setting on-screen with no further navigation. Cleared dispatches may be hidden.
67. Whether a new Ticket goes immediately to the auto-routing function is user-settable.  You may turn that off/on.
68. Ticket serial number identification is now a settable option. The serial may be pre-pended, appended, or not - to the incident name.
69. Users may now write a log entry, of any content, as well as view log contents. Log-file housekeeping was added.
70. Unit icons are identified by letter, distinguishing these from incident icons.  A limit of 26 was raised to two alpha characters.
71. As a security measure, functions buttons are shown only upon login.
72. USNG values may be entered for incident and unit locations.
73. User information hs been significantly expanded to accommodate future team management capabilities.
74. Corrections applied to unit status entries to prevent - as well as accommodate - invalid entries.
75. Reports module now has a report on dispatch performance, plus unit and incident selections.
76. A new user category, 'Member', is available; these are disallowed login, pending team admin functions being made available.
77. Google's Streetview is now available form the add page, on map point selection.
78. Some persistence functions added, notably situation page 'hide units' and also the Call Board's cleared dispatches.
79. Dispatched units may receive email or text msg notification;  message text may be edited prior to release.
80. Terrain map display is now a settings option.

Changes for Tickets V 2.10 D and E
81.  Instamapper interface has been added to support GPS position data from a number of handhelds, notably the blackberry.
		(Which means there no Tickets 'page' for the bb;  We take position data from the Instamapper server as required.)
82.  Support for this interface appears in unit information display.
83.  Units for which driving directions to an incident wd be inappropriate may now be identified, and directions will not be generated.
84.  Editing of generated email is now supported, for both email selected off the incident mini-menu and also upon dispatch.
85.  A 'quick' option setting has been added, which bypasses certain user notification in the interest of rapid operation.
86.  Settings are available to allow default email contents, applicable to noted email and also for 'notify' on new and edited incidents.
    (These are 'msg_text_1' for notify, 'msg_text_2' for incident mini-menu email, and 'msg_text_3' for dispatch notification.) 
    The defaults are set as character strings using the following.  (I cdn't find a more mnemonic scheme.)

			Subject		A
			Incident	B
			Priority	C
			Nature		D
			Written		E
			Updated		F
			Reporter	G
			Phone: 		H
			Status:		I
			Address		J
			Description	K
			Disposition	L
			Start/end	M
			Map coords	N
			Actions		O
			Patients	P
			Host		Q
			
	So, a setting of 'C J D H' wd generate Priority, Address, Nature and Phone no, - in that order - in the to-be-edited message. 
	NB: An empty value is the default; it will generate all of the above, and in that order.
	
87.  A new settings entry - def zoom fixed - allows you to maintain a fixed map and zoom.  Value 0 applies dynamic zoom (original), 
    value 1 fixes only the situation screen, value 2 fixes only the units screen, and value 3 fixes both these screens.

88.  A new settings entry allows you to set the time interval - in hours - during which closed incidents are visible in the 
    Situation screen and cleared dispatches are visible on the Call Board.

Changes for Tickets V 2.10 F

89.  The situation display has been improved to provide more information.  A new popup feature will open a window on the selected 
     incident, with assigned units also shown. Mobile units are distinguished from fixed ones by icon color, black/white.

90.  You may now associate a 'protocol' with each incident type.  The protocol may be whatver category of information your operation 
     finds useful.  It may be the response protocol in, say, vehicle types/manning/specialties, or else the treatment protocol.
     
91.  Mail functions have been significantly improved; 
     (a) Mail to all/selected users - 'members' included - is now available on the Config screen.
     (b) Mail to all/selected respnse units is now available on the Units screen.
     (c) A new settings item, email from, is available.
     (d) SMTP mail connection is now supported, with a test function to assist in getting the connection parameters correct.  See 
         the new configuration/settings value of 'smtp acct'.  Once you have a satisfacory test operation, enter data in a 
         fwd-slash delimited string consisting of the smtp account, the port number, the user account (on that server), and the 
         password.  Your ISP may or may not require a fifth item, a 'from' string. (The following example does NOT show this latter item.)
         
	         outgoing.verizon.net/123/ashore999/whatever


92.  For those of you implementing the Instamapper interface: 
	 (a) The Configuration page has a test function available to help you confirm that the interface/settings are right.
	 (b) The Configuration/Edit Settings/instam key recives the overall site/account key.
	 (c) The Units/Add a Unit/Callsign/License-key field: Each equipped unit receives its 19-character device key.  

The above may be too terse.  Let us know where further expansion wd be useful.

July 27, 09
Arnie Shore
Andy Harvey, UK
