Notes re Tickets CAD V2.7 Beta:

1.  The Call Board function provides a display of current incident-unit assignments. (In effect, a Situation Management tool.)  Clicks there will provide a convenient direct link to incident and unit information.  Cleared incidents are shown with a strike-through for 24 hours in order to communicate that information to later shifts.
2.  Incident types are supported, with the few you'll see able to be extended by admin-privileged users as needed.  See note 32. below.
3.  Given a new call/incident, the next screen shows its location against existing response units, plus their straight-line distances and driving directions -  via both text and map.  Driving directions from any unit may be called up, with the closest one shown as the initial default.
4.  In writing up a new call, the automatic lookup is fairly effective for residential land-line phones, names (with city/state information), and street address.  When found, these return map locations.  (AKA geo-coding.)
5.  Any number of units may be committed to a given incident, as well as vice-versa.  A closed incident remains visible for 24 hours with a strike-through - for ready identification.
6.  The Reports function provides for day/week/month/year summaries, with pie-chart displays by location, priority, and incident-type.
7.  The EM Card function allows you access to the default one provided by Bob Austin, or yr own if you have one.
8.  There's a light-weight chat function available, which some teams find useful for in-the-center chat.

To install:
9.  Create an empty MySQL database entry.  You'll need to know its name, the host name, your user name and password.
10. Unzip the tickets_2_7_beta zip into whatever directory from which you plan to run Tickets.
11. Navigate to, say, http://localhost/tickets/install.php -- or its equivalent on your machine.
12. There, you'll be challenged for the database information used in step 9. above.
13. At some point -- maybe this one -- you'll need a valid GMaps API key.  It's free.  Obtain from Google at 
        http://www.google.com/apis/maps/signup.html

After installing but prior to use:

14. Note that the automatically-generated 'admin' account - despite its name - has privileges level of 'super'.  Only such supers can create new user accounts of this level, which shd be rarely done.
15. For security, you should create your user accounts, with suitable access privileges: Configuration/Add User.  Remove the automatically-created admin/admin account as soon as you've tested your own account with 'super' priveleges.  Similar for guest/guest.
16. Also for security, you should hide the install.php file.  Unintended access can cause havoc.
17. Set a number of settings, like aprs poll, call board, chat time, login banner, host: Configuration/Edit settings. (Mouseover item to see explanation.)  
18. Set default map center:  Configuration/Set Default Map
19. Incident types: Configuration/Incident types fire, traffic
20. Unit status values: Configuration/Unit status types (available, unavailable)
21. Set map center, etc:  Configuration/Set Default Map  (the lookup city entry can help.)
22. Set GMaps API key:  Configuration/Set GMaps API key if needed.
23. Set Incident types: Configuration/Incident types/Add New In_types entry (ex: Animal, Domestic Violence, Public Nuisance)  Set Group and Sort to control the order within the dropdown list.
24. Set Settings, incl Call Board, chat time Default City, map height and width: Configuration/Settings (Again, mouseover item to see explanation) 
25. Set Response Units: Units/Add a Unit.  Mobile units will require a call sign entry, and these will receive APRS polling.  (Calls must match exactly their aprsworld entry.)
26. Set Unit status values: Config/Unit status types.
27. Set email addresses: Config/Contacts.  You'll need these if you'll be emailing incident data.
28. To apply kml files, insert these into the tickets/kml_files subdirectory.
29. To use your own EMS card file, replace the PDF in the ticket/emd_cards subdirectory. (FYI, Bob Austin will be providing updates to the one currently included.)

Odds and ends:

30: Tickets DOES use popups for certain functions.  These will need to be unblocked.
31. On a Win32 platform, whether IIS or Apache, the mail function is problematic; it may or may not work correctly.
32. The map height and width are user-settable, via item 16 above.
33. In the 'incident types' and 'unit status' drop-down lists, you can set background colors by suitable css settings for the option 'group'.  See the ones already set in default.css .
34. We make extensive use of mouseover hints in a number of places, esp where we need to truncate the data shown.
35. Lots more corrections and improvements to the Units and Call Board  operations.
36. Some performance improvements made.
37. KML file useage is now a settable option. (0/1 for no/yes)
38. New privilege level 'super' added, with potentally dangerous database maintenance options restricted to that level.

Changes from Tickets V2.7 (the immediate predecessor version)

35. LOTS more corrections and improvements to the Units, Call Board, and report features.  Fixed units are now referred to as 'stations', and may have a call sign.
36. APRS functions notably cleaned up.  We now keep the most recent seven days' tracks.
37. Tracks improved, and  allows each mobile unit track to occupy its own window - as many as you have mobile units.
38. On tracked units, the as-of time obtained via APRS data is so identified.
39. The Configuration summary now shows who's logged on, or failed to log off.
40. The Units Edit form now shows the number of active dispatches, if any.  Such would make the unit non-removeable.
41. Reports changed to accommodate gracefully references to deleted units and incidents.
42. Login revised to allow reports to show station login data correctly.

Changes for Tickets V2.7 e
43. The Configuration menu now has a 'Test Callsign' function which allows testing a given callsign for APRS validity.
44. Incident infowindows now provide a direct link to allow a unit to be dispatched.
45. If a given Unit is dispatched, its infowindow now identify the incident being dispatched to, with an active link, and also a link to the dispatch/routes page.  N.B. Units without location information cannot be dispatched.

Changes for Tickets V2.8
46. USNG coordinates are now shown for incidents and unit locations.
47. You now have your choice of display format for coordinates; choice is set in Configuration/Settings (no surprise here). Apply (0) for DDD.ddddd, (1) for DDD MMM SS.ss, (2) for DDD MM.mm .
48. Tracks handling has had a significant cleanup, and now includes a graph of altitudes.
49. The top frame now shows the revised value when a 'setting' is revised and affects the display.
50. Graphics in Incident Reports now display correctly.

Changes for Tickets V2.8 b
51. Tables module was corrected to address reported problems in POST variable handling.
52. Minor corrections to filename includes in the help module.
53. Corrections to ticket EDIT and to APRS functions; 

Changes for Tickets V2.9
54. APRS data handling significantly corrected and improved. Repeated zero-speed posreps are not retained.
55. Dispatch to a unit that has its 'contact via' setting an email address - including one for cellphone texting - generates mail to that address.
56. Cellphones/texting messages will be automatically 'chunked' to reflect the size limit per message.
57. Operator-level users may now perform all needed ticket, unit and dispatch data updates.
59. The database schema was expanded to accommodate expected growth in Tickets capabilities.  Teams and members - with attributes of titles, skills, courses taken, certificates gained, plus document management and photos - are now schema elements, although without any code in this version.
60. 'Notifies' was expanded to accommodate automatic notification via email/texting whenever ANY ticket is edited or written, with a filter for severity.

Changes for Tickets V 2.9 A
61. Primarily a bug correction release.  Lots of odds and ends, including the install process, several in the Call Board operation and in the Zoom mini-map display.

Changes for Tickets V 2.10 C
62. Unit types are now (at last!) variable. You may create any number of types, each unit associated with a type.
63. Phone no. lookup is more effective, using 'White Pages' API in place of Google's.  A default area-code setting is included.
64. The set of 500 icons has been eliminated in favor of dynamic number generation as required.  (Big reduction in zip file size.)
65. The Call Board may now be set to allow a permanent, frame-based display, as an alternative to the floating window, or none.
66. Its operation is a good bit quicker, providing dispatch status setting on-screen with no further navigation. Cleared dispatches may be hidden.
67. Whether a new Ticket goes immediately to the auto-routing function is user-settable.  You may turn that off/on.
68. Ticket serial number identification is now a settable option. The serial may be pre-pended, appended, or not - to the incident name.
69. Users may now write a log entry, of any content, as well as view log contents. Log-file housekeeping was added.
70. Unit icons are identified by letter, distinguishing these from incident icons.  A limit of 26 was raised to two alpha characters.
71. As a security measure, functions buttons are shown only upon login.
72. USNG values may be entered for incident and unit locations.
73. User information hs been significantly expanded to accommodate future team management capabilities.
74. Corrections applied to unit status entries to prevent - as well as accommodate - invalid entries.
75. Reports module now has a report on dispatch performance, plus unit and incident selections.
76. A new user category, 'Member', is available; these are disallowed login, pending team admin functions being made available.
77. Google's Streetview is now available form the add page, on map point selection.
78. Some persistence functions added, notably situation page 'hide units' and also the Call Board's cleared dispatches.
79. Dispatched units may receive email or text msg notification;  message text may be edited prior to release.
80. Terrain map display is now a settings option.

Changes for Tickets V 2.10 D and E
81.  Instamapper interface has been added to support GPS position data from a number of handhelds, notably the blackberry.
		(Which means there no Tickets 'page' for the bb;  We take position data from the Instamapper server as required.)
82.  Support for this interface appears in unit information display.
83.  Units for which driving directions to an incident wd be inappropriate may now be identified, and directions will not be generated.
84.  Editing of generated email is now supported, for both email selected off the incident mini-menu and also upon dispatch.
85.  A 'quick' option setting has been added, which bypasses certain user notification in the interest of rapid operation.
86.  Settings are available to allow default email contents, applicable to noted email and also for 'notify' on new and edited incidents.
    (These are 'msg_text_1' for notify, 'msg_text_2' for incident mini-menu email, and 'msg_text_3' for dispatch notification.) 
    The defaults are set as character strings using the following.  (I cdn't find a more mnemonic scheme.)

			Subject		A
			Incident	B
			Priority	C
			Nature		D
			Written		E
			Updated		F
			Reporter	G
			Phone: 		H
			Status:		I
			Address		J
			Description	K
			Disposition	L
			Start/end	M
			Map coords	N
			Actions		O
			Patients	P
			Host		Q
			
	So, a setting of 'C J D H' wd generate Priority, Address, Nature and Phone no, - in that order - in the to-be-edited message. 
	NB: An empty value is the default; it will generate all of the above, and in that order.
	
87.  A new settings entry - def zoom fixed - allows you to maintain a fixed map and zoom.  Value 0 applies dynamic zoom (original), 
    value 1 fixes only the situation screen, value 2 fixes only the units screen, and value 3 fixes both these screens.

88.  A new settings entry allows you to set the time interval - in hours - during which closed incidents are visible in the 
    Situation screen and cleared dispatches are visible on the Call Board.

Changes for Tickets V 2.10 F

89.  The situation display has been improved to provide more information.  A new popup feature will open a window on the selected 
     incident, with assigned units also shown. Mobile units are distinguished from fixed ones by icon color, black/white.

90.  You may now associate a 'protocol' with each incident type.  The protocol may be whatver category of information your operation 
     finds useful.  It may be the response protocol in, say, vehicle types and manning or specialties, or else the treatment protocol.
     
91.  Mail functions have been significantly improved; 
     (a) mail to all/selected users - 'members' is now available on the Config screen.
     (b) Mail to all/selected respnse units is now available on the Units screen.
     (c) A new settings item, email from, is available.
     (d) SMTP mail connection is now supported, with a test function to assist in getting the connection parameters correct.  See 
         the new configuration/settings value of 'smtp acct'.  Once you have a satisfacory test operation, enter data in a 
         fwd-slash delimited string consisting of the smtp account, the port number, the user account (on that server), and the 
         password.  Your ISP may or may not require a fifth item, a 'from' string. (The following example does NOT show this latter item.)
         
	         outgoing.verizon.net/123/ashore999/whatever


92.  For those of you implementing the Instamapper interface, the Configuration page does have a test function available.

Changes for Tickets V 2.10 G

93.  Google Latitude, LocateA and Gtrack have been added as tracking devices/services. Setting for Gtrack URL is on the configuration page. 
     Selection of the service is added by a convenient drop down list in the page where units are defined. The url for the gtrack server is
     input on the configuration page. If no url is input here, Gtrack will not be shown as an option.

94.  There is a new entry on the units page to allow use of "Handle" IAW user convention. This is in addition to the call sign/license key
     entry which must be the same as used by the chosen tracking service - APRS call sign will often be the same entry as Handle but for services
     such as LocateA, Gtrack, Instamapper and Google Latitude the setting in call sign will in general not be of any use when calling up the
     unit as per local convention and communication type.
     
95.  Test screens have been added which allow testing of the three additional tracking services, accessible from the configuration page. They
     require a valid tracking id to work and in the case of Gtrack, a valid URL. Basic details of how to implement a Gtrack system are included
     in the file "gtrack_readme.txt". The other services are hosted and therefore require little setup besides getting an account and a user ID.

96.  Setting for default Map Type (maptype) allows you to set whether the default view for the Google Map element is standard Roadmap,
     Satellite Map, Terrain Map or Hybrid. Buttons still exist to allow changing from the default during use.

97.  Setting for locale added to configuration settings to allow for the options 0=US, 1=UK, 2=ROW. This determines whether US National Grid, 
     Ordnance Survey National Grid for the UK or UTM grid references are shown. This setting also changes date display on pulldown menu for Add and 
     Edit incident files.

98.  Hiding/showing units on situation display as well as by specific incident priorities is now provided.

99.  User-defined function buttons have now been added, with these appearing when set on the top menu screen. Setting of these function keys is 
     achieved through the configuration page. The entry follows the convention "url, Function Key Text". There is a default setting for function 
     key one of the home page for the OpneISES project. The function keys will bring up a popup window and therefore popups are required (same 
     as for use of Incident popup, Tracks and the EM Card capability). Function keys that have no url or text stored will not show therefore 
     no screen space is taken.  A possible use for this would be to server additional documents stored on the server such as local procedures 
     or training documents.

100. Per suggestion, and to add convenience in adding text to incident synopsis and disposition, we've added links to do so.  You'll see the 
     links on the incident map info-window and also the mini-menu.  Your entered text will be time-stamped.  The text volume is essentially 
     unlimited.
     
101. Incident type attributes has been expanded to allow adding a circle around the incident location.  You may specify circle radius (in miles, 
     color (using the common #rrggbb notation) and opacity (expressed as a number in the range 0-9, but start with 3 to see its effects). Try 
     using a group of these overlapped to identify an area that might be identified as 'do-not-enter', for emergency use.
     
The above may be too terse.  Let us know where further expansion wd be useful.

Changes for Tickets V 2.11 A and B

102. Added Facilities. Facilities are treated by Tickets in two ways, either to be routed to as the main incident location - possible use
     for distribution depots. Location of incident can be set by selecting the incident from a pull down menu - lat and lng are set from
     the facility details. Facilities also have additional information stored such as Security and access details. Facilities have two additonal
     tables to set status and type in a similar manner to units. Facilities have their own icon types to distinguish from incidents and units.
     Facility types and status values are set from the configuration screen.

103. Added ability to set a facility as a receiving point for people from an incident - usefull for EMS, Police or disaster scenarios where
     the facility could be a receiving station. Enhanced the unit status to now include en-route to facility and arrived at facility. Added
     Log events for future reporting against facilities.

104. Added Mail directions to a unit. An operator can either get route details for a facility and without dispatching a unit, email the route
     directions to any of the units or when dispatching a unit to an incident, as well as any other communications can email the directions.
     The directions capability has been enhanced to allow for multi point directions - i.e. current location to incident to receiving facility.

105. Facilities are hidden by default on the situation screen but the markers and sidebar can be displayed by clicking a show facilities link.
     Clicking on the sidebar or marker brings up an infowindow with details of the facility including opening hours, contact, security and
     access details.

106. There is now a "Links" button in the top menu which groups the function keys from 2_10_G under 1 button to save screen room. Clicking the
     "Links" button displays the function keys underneath the main menu buttons.

107. There is a Full Screen popup button in the main menu which opens a full screen map view of the situation map (excluding the sidebar).

108. There is now the ability to set a ticket with a status of "Scheduled". The Scheduled status is for pre-booked calls for some time in the future.
     If the status is set as Scheduled then the ticket will appear on a separate screen. An additional button now appears under the sidebar for
     Scheduled tickets in addition to the closed tickets button. Once a "Scheduled" ticket becomes due, the status can be changed to open and the
     ticket dealt with as normal. It will now appear in the main situation screen. Scheduled tickets retain the coloring by priority of other
     tickets.

109. The Unit and facility indices shown in the lists and on the markers now use a shortened version of the name. How this works is that when
     Entering a name into a unit or facility definition, follow the name with a "/" and three characters. The three characters will show up
     as the index. An example would be to define a new or edit an existing unit or facility and set the name as "Tickets User/T01". The T01
     will show up as the index in the list and on the marker and just the name "Tickets User" will appear as the name in both the lists and
     the infowindows. 

110. A frequent fliers facility has been added - this checks previous "reported by" entries in the database to check for persistent offenders.

111. In the Situation screen and full screen popup you can hide unavailable units. An field has been added to the unit status table to select
     which status types are badged as unavailable and can therfore be hidden.

112. The Scheduled and Closed Incidents buttons on the situation screen under the list of tickets and units are only shown if there are tickets
     in the database that have this status. You will not see the Scheduled Incidents button if there are no Scheduled incidents and in the same way
     the closed incidents button only appears if there are any closed incidents on the database. 

113. The call board has been upgraded to include the times for Facilities en-route and Facilities arrive evemts.  A List option has been added
	 which shows elapsed time from incident start to each call event.  In addition, the report shows color-coded values for those times 
	 exceeding certain threhold values, the latter set-able by users to meet local standards, and set by incident priority.. While dispalyed 
	 values are shown in compact form, cursor 'mouse-over' displays the full value.


Changes for Tickets V 2.11 C

114. On new calls, the entered phone no. may be looked up for prior calls, and if found, the most recent name and 
	 location information is copied into the new form.  A Call history feature is now available, showing full 
	 details re past calls from the given phone number.
		
115. Unit status may be updated directly from the situation screen, saving a number of navigation clicks. Admin 
	 users are taken directly to the incident/unit/facility edit screens for information update.

116. Navigation is significantly improved:  The sit screen goes directly to edit screen page for each of our unholy
	 three if the 'quick' setting is on (set to 1) and you're an Admin.  Other click steps are bypassed if 
	 the 'quick' setting is on.  Feedback is reported at screen top right in these cases.

117. Directions may now be turned off/on temporarily for routes/dispatch.  Other significant directions handling 
	 clean-ups are included.
		
118. The Tickets logo has been changed better to reflect our guess at the working uniform-of-the-day for the majority
	 of you. In addition, the logo file is now a user setting, facilitating your own replacement.

119. To assist in rapid dispatch, the incident address is shown highlighted and floating on the dispatch page.

120. To assit in tailoring the Call Board format to meet local needs, some column-width values are set in the 
	 top portion of assigns.php.  Help yrself, but PLS do be careful and back up the  page before any changes.

121. We've made a number of other corrections and performance as well as esthetic improvements.  E.g., the full 
	 screen page now works, Google Latitude accommodates id's with or without the hyphen, and there's better (like
	 correct!) handling of floating buttons for IE users.


The above may be too terse.  Let us know where further expansion wd be useful.

October, 09
Arnie Shore
Andy Harvey, UK
