twitter.txt:	Information about using and configuring Twitter on Tickets 3.08+

About Twitter Integration with Tickets.

Twitter as a social media platform is potentially for some organisations a useful tool
for getting messages out to team members as well as the public in general. Information
about incidents, resources and other useful stuff can be made available in a concise and
timely manner. Tweets can be made from Tickets either as an ad-hoc tweet by clicking the
"More" button in the sidebar (the one with three dots) or from the infowindows shown
on the maps for Incidents and facilities. Furthermore if a responder is set with their
Twitter screen name (including the @ symbol) in the "contact via" box, you can use other 
Tickets messaging tasks to send a direct tweet to their Twitter account.

Setup.

To setup Twitter within Tickets you first need to create a Twitter App - when logged into
Twitter, navigate to https://apps.twitter.com/ and add a new App. Give the App a recognisable
name such as "Tickets CAD", fill out the Description, website (your own Tickets URL), 
Callback URL (your own Tickets URL), accept the terms and your App will be created. Now you 
need to click on the created App and then click on the "modify app permisions" link and
set the app to "Read, Write and Access Direct Messages". After clicking Update settings
go back to the App details and click the "manage keys and access tokens" link. Form this page
you then need to copy the following into Tickets settings (Config / edit settings) into the
appropriate fields.

Consumer Key
Consumer Secret
Access Token
Access Token Secret

Once you have added these to Tickets settings and submitted the changes Twitter will now
be available on Tickets and you will see the appropriate buttons appear on the
infowindows and the "More" tab.

When sending a Tweet (except when using Twitter to contact responders) you have the opportunity
to add a Twitter Screen Name (without the preceding @), a Twitter User ID (helps if there are
people with similar screen names) and a message. If sending from an Incident or Facility 
infowindow, as well as sending the Incident summary or Facility summary you can add extra
information which shows in Twitter before the other details. If you don't specify a
Twitter user direct (Screen Name or User ID), the Tweet will be added to the Twitter user 
public status. If you do specify a Screen Name or User ID the Tweet will be sent as a Direct
Message.

August 15